From: Dennis E. Hamilton [dennis.hamilton@acm.org]
Sent: Thursday, 18 October 2001 16:26
To: Betsy Fanning
Subject: 2001-10-09: DMware Self-Sufficiency - I

Betsy,

Here's a start on my thoughts of projects that might provide some sort of self-sufficiency for the AIIM Standards operation.

I.	Closing the Gap between Technology and Practice

WebDAV, much like DMA and ODMA, is specified at a detailed and low-level technical level.  Jim Whitehead and I agree that there is a major gap between the basic technology and information about practical usage and what is required in practice to install, manage, and operate a WebDAV repository.  There is a prospect for tutorial work and for something that can be sold, such as a CD-ROM or some kind of kit.  Also, demonstrating interoperability among WebDAV repositories, and to know how to ensure interoperability and protection of ones information investments over time is an open area.

If we had a WebDAV-ODMA fixture, it could be included in such a package.  We agree to its value with regard to integrating document management with desktop applications when WebDAV is used as the repository.  

I tend to think of work here as producing tuturials, some demonstration tools, and worked cases around records and document management using available Web and DM standards.  

There are times when I think this is boring or not appealing enough.  At the same time it is about putting together simple practical materials that allow people to become self-reliant in using these tools and in accomplishing interoperability and interchange with them.  

It falls in the area of creating practice and experiences out where anyone can duplicate and test them for themselves.  It should provide a way for users to make use of simple technology, get practical experience, and then be prepared to map thoughtful approaches to scaling and expansion.

Who does the work? Who adds value (including making the work available and accessible)?  It would be useful if there were initiatives in public arenas that AIIM could draw together.  I am thinking about work with NIST, with various agencies around the preservation of records, documents, and public accountability, etc.  I am not sure where else there is a self-interest that matches with public visibility and availability.

What I notice is that I have been reluctant to dive into this area, even though I see it as an opportunity.  I confess that I don't have much sense about how value is identified in a way where people and organizations are willing to provide funding, make purchases, or contribute their own resources.

-- Dennis

Dennis E. Hamilton
AIIM DMware Technical Coordinator
------------------
mailto:dennis.hamilton@acm.org  tel. +1-206-932-6970
http://www.dmware.org           cel. +1-206-779-9430
     ODMA Support http://www.infonuovo.com/odma