From: Dennis E. Hamilton [dennis.hamilton@acm.org]
Sent: Wednesday, 24 October 2001 20:46
To: Betsy Fanning
Subject: 2001-10-24: DMware Self-Sufficiency - Themes

Here are some themes for me, from broadest to weakest in terms of potential impact.  I was dragging them out to think about opportunities.  Sort of brainstorming with myself, though I haven't found anything particularly inspiring here just yet.

IV.	System Usability
	Consider computer systems and software that allow users to operate at whatever level their understanding and mastery permits, with the system supporting their exploratory practice and mastery.  Being able to discover everything there is about the configuration, the hardware, and the software and how it works together so that troubleshooting is possible and configuration adjustments can be done in a reliable, confident way.

III.	System Coherence
	When a system is operating in a coherent way, the interactions that an user performs all support a consistent model of operation in the mind of the user.  Errors and problems are expressed at the same level, so that users never need to be concerned about the seams of the system and how the underlying implementations work.  

II.	Electronic Document Permanence and Preservation
	Electronic documents are carried in public formats and submitted to and extracted from document-management systems with preservation of the public format and of information (metadata) about the documents.  There are standards and tools for ensuring the reliable use of standard formats and the successful configuration of document-processing and -management products that operate on such formats.  Users always have ways to operate with their document and exchange them with others, regardless of the commercial tools that are used in the present and in the future.  Vendors build markets by ensuring interoperability and adherence to the standard formats, adding value in other dimensions of use, customization, and suitability for particular applications.  Industry and government groups foster standard substrates and formats to fulfill on their accountability for long-range usability and access of materials.
	I think this is the level where DMware can make a difference.  

I.	Closing the Gap between Technology and Practice
	What I have said already about the use and application of WebDAV as a way to motivate and demonstrate document management practices having low cost of entry and an appealing learning curve.
 