From: Dennis E. Hamilton [dennis.hamilton@acm.org]
Posted At: Friday, 30 November 2001 09:33
Conversation: Themes: 2001-11-30 Buddy call with Bill Anderson
Posted To: themes

Subject: Themes: 2001-11-30 Buddy call with Bill Anderson

NEXT CALL: 2001-12-07, 8am pst (11am est), Bill calls Dennis
	We will work out an agenda for the next call via e-mail.


BILL'S REQUIREMENTS WORK

BAnd: Go over to work on engineering requirements and make a bridge between grounded empirical stuff and what it is to actually put together requirements.
	Use cases are not requirements.  Also, Brad Myers says use cases are useless because they are procedural.  Not abstracted.
	Model-Based Architecture.  Not heard of.
	The how to do it.  Use cases and scenarios wrt how people work.
	Do the UN or NATO or someone and have a retro-prospective meeting on Software Engineering.
	Suggestions about where to look - corporate offices, institutions, find the stakeholders that know they must have requirements and measurability.

DENNIS THEME NOTES (more typing because I was talking?)

I noticed two places where I have made myself indispensable and am sitting on it - the WebDAV project for AIIM; the DMware open-source license for AIIM.  Also, how I operate the Miser site (e.g., sitting on Bill's comments on the synopsis for a year).  Bill suggested I put up a WIKI.

What is it, where is there technology in this (know-how, artifacts, etc), what's the business?  For me?  For others?

The Scale of Human Experience

Purposive Use of Computers in Human System - In Coordinated Activities, Cooperative

Coherence

System Architecture and Requirements - High-Level

Architecting for Integration for Interoperability
Managing Levels of Abstraction in a Self-Conscious Way

How I want Computers to Be

How I want Mastery of Computers to Be
	SE4E, CP4E theme
	systems provide a non-intrusive learning experience and people being able to explore and develop
	How to find out what there is to know.
	Inspectability and Accountability, ability to confirm a system.

Building interoperability into stuff.

Electronic documents and documents as instruments of human activity.
Documents as managed/interchanged/preserved.

	Practice
	Technology
	Conceptual World, Real World

Stakeholders - government agencies and civil organizations and institutions, and certain corporations

	Part of the law or part of the ethos
	Stakeholders 

OAIS - Open Archive Information Standard, etc.

WIKI's, D3E, Faq-o-matic, makes FAQ.  Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.  Works with a community of people.  Documentation archives, etc.

Miser and Computation Theory, and physics, manifest abstraction, and back to the scale of human of experience.

Everybody needs teachers.  University, talk to people ..., 

We talked about getting into a community that supports us.  Dennis has not followed up with David Levy, sees that Cathy Marshall is at Microsoft, and he also hasn't followed up with Italian contacts that seem to be at work in digital libraries, records management, hypertext, usability, etc.  Lynne Shaw may be a resource for Bill.

[Added: Dennis is in touch with Jamie Snell and will talk to him more before the December 15 open-house at their place.]

	-	-	-	end	-	-	-	-
