From: Dennis E. Hamilton [dennis.hamilton@acm.org]
Sent: Friday, 07 December 2001 13:43
To: William Anderson
Subject: FW: Buddies: Bill Anderson calls

0.	Send notes from 11-30 call. - DONE 

1.	Agree on an agenda - DONE

2.	I was late on the call - where was I that I lost track of the time?

3.	Vicki talked to Bill and filled him in on where we are living, etc.

4.	NEXT CALL: Dennis calls on December 14, 11am est.  We work out an agenda again.

	MY COMMITMENT IS TO MAKE SOMETHING POSTABLE/DISCUSSIBLE ON "1(b)" (section 6, below) by Monday, December 10.

	ALSO: Promised to send out notes ASAP (here they are, somewhat delayed while I fooled around on algorithm-forge and comp-sci-theory).

5.	REQUIREMENTS - What has requirements work?  We need to pursue this.  Debugging comments?  Something around commitment?
	Dennis says it is something about commitment and then working in public - demonstrating and satisfying.  Measurability, predictability.
	Intervention.  Bill talks about intervention required.
	What about qualitative measures, etc?  Social science and also value engineering.  dh: Asking people will normally have them tell you a story.  That can be valuable, so long as we get that is what is happening.
	Changes of abstraction around requirements.  Thinking in terms of the implementation rather than the requirement.   Separation of what and how.  Pitfall: viewing the use case as a picture of the implementation.  Taking it literally.  Essential and incidental.  It is a level thing - the level of description required inside the program is different in contrast to the description in the context of use.  They are related but not reducible one to the other.  
	Discussion about Churchill quote, and changes of abstraction.
	Churchill: We design the building and then the building designs us (?)

6.	Discussion of Theme 1(b) - What do people do - does Microsoft care, who is interested?  What is it and how do I make it work and how does it fit into what I want or need to do?  What is its value?  What am I making of it?  Any discipline around the use of this is in practice?  Examples of practice or (case studies?).
	People using Web Folders, and to do what?  And for what purposes?
	We find practical, confirmable experiences out of this.
Bridging between the abstraction of the instrument to the level/context of purposive use.
	In some sense, this is what analysis should be?  Certainly for system architecture?
	At some level someone has to think about it and choose.  It's not automated or automatable.  Keep the Churchill quote in mind all the way down.



-- Dennis

