From: Dennis E. Hamilton [dennis.hamilton@acm.org]
Sent: Friday, 14 December 2001 13:55
To: William Anderson
Subject: Themes: 2001-12-14 Buddy call with Bill Anderson

Here is an interesting article and the site that it refers to:

	http://www.computerworld.com/storyba/0,4125,NAV47_STO66647,00.html

	http://www.webstandards.org/

This is about interoperability.  It ties to confirmable experience.

TODAY'S NOTES:
-------------

Bill talks about the project he is doing:
	Discussion of data archiving is all about high-tech usage.  Now need (1) to move forward and (2) find out what developing countries are doing and how can they move into this too.  Creating a portal, having conferences ...

Application to Pace:
	Send Dennis a copy.

Discussion of sequel to Gilb's DBO work. 
	Metrics and measures.
	Reality and the achievable.

The requirements barrier - 
	There needs to be a way to take things to where they can be constructed and brought back.
	People want to take ordinary language and want to make it formal language.
	This is a lossy activity.
	It is not a 1-to-1 correspondence.
	There is naivety: the belief in 1-to-1 correspondences.
	dh: One thing about requirements is they are a kind of sense making at a level where what is separate from how to a degree that allows some freedom to find a solution.  Having that what at that level.
	band: A requirement is going to be expressed in ordinary language and the program is going to be expressed in a formal language, and there is a gap.
	impedance mismatch around the conceptualization of software solutions to requirements, and the conceptualization of requirements themselves.
	dh: the social dimensions is reflect in that the engineer thinks there's no problem, he wants the users to change.
	band: It looks like engineers are confused about tacit stuff.
	band: Have engineers look at what they really do and how they operate in reality, as opposed to their own stories about it.

Architecture as a mediation between customer and contractor around requirements and feasibility.  customer, contractor, architect.

Disciplined engineering - civil engineers, etc.

Programs are artifacts in the world - the running program versus the expression of the program?  We have issues.

Validity.  There is always a validity gap.  And the work is inductive, not deductive.  It is an empirical process.  The problem is with surrogates.

Talking about CLASS: Someone was introspective about this - this was a pilot to demonstrate that digital reformatting was the preferable form of preservation.

It is valuable to have a specific user in mind.

Use cases are not requirements. They are tests of something in the space the requirement must cover.

ACTION:

Dennis & Bill need to eat their own dogfood - we need to do requirements on what is we are doing - use the Gilb structure, take a look at that.

Bill sends notes on requirements and goals.

Bill sends URLs on the Gilb methodology.

Make a link between requirements and architecture.  Cover ground here.  There are all of these tools that help do that.  Understand the ordinary language of the customer.  dh: What's an intermediate form that can be used as a common language between the people working on both sides of the abstraction?

CONFIRMABLE EXPERIENCE:
	How does this fit into things.
	Probably somehow, but let's take it separately.

-- Dennis

Dennis E. Hamilton
AIIM DMware Technical Coordinator
------------------
mailto:dennis.hamilton@acm.org  tel. +1-206-932-6970
http://www.dmware.org           cel. +1-206-779-9430
     ODMA Support http://www.infonuovo.com/odma








