From: Dennis E. Hamilton [dennis.hamilton@acm.org]
Posted At: Friday, 01 February 2002 09:22
Conversation: 2002-02-01: Buddy Call Notes
Posted To: Colleagues

Subject: 2002-02-01: Buddy Call Notes


	NEXT CALL - 
	Susan has an office that she would call in from.
	We're going to set another time.
	Bill places the call.

A.	Discussion of Ontology papers and Dennis reaction
	Dennis needs to find the Berners-Lee paper.  
	Discussion of the Guarino and Welty material and the Bobrow, et.al. contributions.
	How to stay away from this for now.

B.	Reviewed some notes.

C.	BUSINESS ARRANGEMENT
1.	Who owns what, what are the divisions of ownership, of revenues, expenses.
	- Loose confederation
	- What we develop is jointly and non-exclusively owned
	- The work we do in developing things is at our expense.
		(calls, web sites, writing, blah, blah, blah)
	- Any of us can do what we want with the materials we develop, and there can be some recognition that they are jointly-developed materials, we promote each other.
	- If we do anything that is billable, and has a contract, then we need to figure it out in terms of the conditions of the contract (time keeping requirements, etc.)
		- if we're on time and materials, how do we do that.
	- If we do something for an agreed fee, then we need to allocate - e.g., a workshop or a course, my assumption equal shares after covered expenses for the participation in such a thing.
	My sense of things is that I don't want to have to worry about having information closely held. We want to give it away, over and over again.  
	There are people who publish and give away materials and still succeed consulting.

2.	

3.	WHAT AND WHERE?

b.	Where do we fit - We are looking at requirements and system conceptualization stage at two ends of the development process,
	Requirements to architecture level (up front and in the middle) and the conceptualization of the system and the change process in of the system.
	Confirmable experience (in the middle and on the end) - quality process (but not QA) - relationship to QCDs?
	(Something to do with deployment - how are systems deployed and how.)
	Part of what we see here is having the whole context from end-to-end and not losing, even though it may not be something there's a lot of attention on down in the reduced activities.  
	It is almost assumed for us that we are speaking of collaborative activities (and coordinated actions), otherwise there's no "system" design to contribute to.
		In terms of technology, we probably stop somewhere around where there is a UML model of anything?  Certainly we don't go much lower.
	[Dennis needs to demonstrate that performance architectures and behavioral models fit in UML as views of a system.]

a.	What are we providing there -
	Systems Analysis at the requirements level, including construction of system models - situated systems, consulting with people who have problems that these approaches apply to.
	Some tools and practices and delivering them to people who want to apply them.
	So people who can see how to use these and do it themselves.
	Use-centered architecture practice and tools (we're doing it, and we're showing it is done).
	A large part of this is the explanatory and sense-making contribution that this provides.



4.	WHAT DO WE HAVE What projects are we at work on, and how do we take them out into the world in a way where we can provide value and be compensated for that.
	Getting to tangible offerings.
a.	We have to write something - it comes with writing something, having where others can see it, and then engaging with people who want it applied (or to learn how to apply it).

b.	Areas of practice - subject matter cases
	trustworthy computing
		sense-making and confirmable experience around certificates, signatures, etc.
		there is a higher-level picture and it is more situated, even though a conceptual architecture
	webfolders - DAV - document managements
		confirmable experience around just webfolders
		this is nuts and bolts at your desktops
		here the higher-level picture is pretty instrumenta - just using a file system, or using something else as if it were a file system is pretty much all infrastructure - this is a pretty content-free (context-free ?) activity.

d.	Find clients
	** WE SHOULD WORK ON THIS **

e.	Who is our peer community and what about making contact with them?
	The analyst community, but near them is the consulting community, the consulting and business analyst part of the world.


D.	OUR EXPERIMENTS AND TASKS
1.	Dennis let Bill know how to find the PWS download.  Or look at installing something that speaks WebDAV.  

