From: Dennis E. Hamilton [dennis.hamilton@acm.org]
Sent: Wednesday, 09 January 2002 10:35
To: Betsy Fanning
Subject: 2002-01-09: Closing the Gap - Confirming Requirements and
Practice with WebDAV

Betsy,

Thank you for your call.  Afterwards, and looking at this, I realized that we could be talking about two different things.  Here is the first theme that came to mind.  The second one, with regard to Property Registration, is a different topic.  I will send a separate note about that.

Here is what I propose for a half-day workshop/session from my "theme I." 

I am going to review this with an associate and with Jim Whitehead, who is also interested in this theme.  I am going to send it to Bernard Chester as well, since it may be useful that whatever DMware activity we have precedes the XML session.

CONFIRMING DOCUMENT-MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS AND PRACTICE WITH WEBDAV
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduction of document-management invites major expenditures and system changes that risk major disruptions in work practices.  System changes can undermine the easy and confident application of tacit knowledge that workers already have about the routine document-centric activities of the organization.  As the PC, Internet, and Web technologies drive down the cost of application deployment, what new opportunities are there for managing the management of documents without the drama, tension, conflict, and uncertainty?  What use can be made of commodity and work-group-scale products for developing experience-based requirements and adjustment of practices that have documents be electronically managed in ways that serve the organization?

This mini-workshop focuses on the existing, already-available provisions of Microsoft Office, Web Folders, and WebDAV repositories for developing and confirming introduction of document management practices.  

[	questions that we are addressing	]

[	what we want people to be able to do	]

[	who this is for and how they should be equipped for this workshop	]

[ 	what will be provided at the workshop and as background for it ]

[	promoting this as a DMware event, with more information to be developed on the DMware.org site in advance of the conference.]

RELATIONSHIP TO THE PROPERTY REGISTRATION AND METADATA INTERESTS

Coming out of initial trials, people want to rely on metadata definitions that have already been worked out and also want to be able to evaluate WebDAV (and other) document repositories for supporting *their* metadata and structured materials..

I think this is ancilliary to the WebDAV Property Registration activity, although it is a background item.  I will see how they might be tied together.

-- Dennis

Dennis E. Hamilton
AIIM DMware Technical Coordinator
------------------
mailto:dennis.hamilton@acm.org  tel. +1-206-932-6970
http://www.dmware.org           cel. +1-206-779-9430
     ODMA Support http://www.infonuovo.com/odma





-----Original Message-----
From: Dennis E. Hamilton [mailto:dennis.hamilton@acm.org]
Sent: Wednesday, October 24, 2001 20:46
To: Betsy Fanning
Subject: 2001-10-24: DMware Self-Sufficiency - Themes


[ ... ]

I.	Closing the Gap between Technology and Practice
	What I have said already about the use and application of WebDAV as a way to motivate and demonstrate document management practices having low cost of entry and an appealing learning curve.
 