w260200-BobFloyd-2026-02-06         UTF-8                       dh:2026-02-06
#---|----1----|----2----|----3----|----4----|----5----|----6----|----7----|--*

SEARCHING FOR FLOYD (Note to Don Knuth)

I was looking for a paper by Bob Floyd in the ACM Digital Library.  The first
result for "Robert W. Floyd" was your In Memoriam in the December 2003 SIGACT
News <https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/954092.954488>.

The fascinating connection about how we developed software and then learned
that it could be supported mathematically struck me of course.  I nodded all
the way through that.

An additional coincidence is that I was looking for the paper in which
parsing and computation (or code generation) was described.  I didn't
remember the title, but I remembered the use of "Δ". I figured it was
in Comm.ACM.

Of course, it is "A Descriptive Language for Symbol Manipulation."  And it was
J.ACM. I recall practicing the notation at the time (1961) but I don't
remember my purpose.  I have a current purpose and I'm pleased to have the
paper once again.

That was not my earliest encounter of Bob's work though.  He caught my eye
with "An Algorithm for Coding Efficient Arithmetic Operations" in the
January 1961 C.ACM.  But I misremembered that. I had been thinking it was
about compiling conditional and Boolean expressions but that was not Floyd
in the particular issue.  (I joined ACM around August 1961 but they'd send
all of the current year's publications as part of their calendar-year
memberships at the time.)

With regard to my searching for what I recall as papers by Bob, I dug up
"Syntactic Analysis and Operator Precedence."  It doesn't look familiar
although I know I read it and the passage on reduction to simpler precedence
rules is something I recall.  I am working on one such grammar and I am going
to confirm that there.

Something that was more familiar, using (ꓱ x), is a recollection I recall
arising in Floyd's use of mathematical logic.  That is in "Bounded Context
Syntactic Analysis" which I also remember but my memory confused it with the
Operator Precedence paper.

I'm still stuck looking for something I attribute to Bob but might also be off
base.  It is about Structural Induction, something I find very useful and
that is also taught in some situations for reasoning about programs without
explaining what it is :).

I'll end this with a reminiscence.  I already admired Floyd's work
when I saw him at the San Dimas workshop on Programming Language Pragmatics,
the one where "The Next 700 Programming Languages" presentation was bike-
shedded on the use of indentation in ISWIM.  I managed to say "hello" to
Bob when he was sitting in front of me at a session.  That was it. I was
pretty timid in those days.  I was also ill during that workshop and did not
participate much.

 - Dennis
