From: Dennis E. Hamilton [dennis.hamilton@acm.org]
Sent: Tuesday, October 08, 2002 10:45
To: BFANNING
Cc: Jim Whitehead
Subject: 2002-10-08 Status: WebDAV Property Registration Project

Here is my weekly update.

First, it is a day late.  My commitment is to provide updates, no matter what, on Mondays, and I will put that in.

1.	COMPLETED PROJECT ITEMS

I have completed on only one of the milestones I set in the replanning done last week.  That was gathering the information for how to be on the WebDAV distribution list.  It is at
	http://DMware.info/WebDAV/FAQ/Q021001.htm

2.	INCOMPLETE PROJECT ITEMS

I did some stage setting and provision of preliminary items, but there is nothing else complete as of 2002-10-07.  I underestimated the capacity that I would have available over the weekend while also dealing with personal items, the unexpected, etc.  I will look at having more realistic scopings and also being able to manage my commitment to deliverables for reliable results.

3.	REPRIORITIZATION TO KEEP THE SCHEDULE

The critical path is for an Internet Draft on the requirements, starting with a preliminary draft and then an update as more discussion takes us to an area of agreement.  Then there is a draft proposal to develop what we have into an Informational rfc.  Basically, anything that is to be available for discussion at IETF-55 must be completed by 10-28.  I have set the 10-21 as the milepost for that to have some slack, especially since it is my first time through this part of the IETF process.  Here is how I propose to reprioritize the other tasks I have identified:

3.1	Wed 10-09. Have the sketch requirements document on-line and available for review by end of day tomorrow, 10-09 (pst).  I will use the WebDAV list to announce that availability.  I will also provide the key elements in mail notes so that discussion can commence on the WebDAV list.

3.2	Thu 10-10. With discussion on requirements underway, provide the minimal sufficient information to have the AIIM Standards community know about this by adjusting the DMware.org page and making an announcement on the Web-DM list, perhaps others.  I will do that by 10-10.

3.3	Mon 10-14. I will then circle back and see how to fill in other items in a replan of the mileposts that remain.  The critical path will be posting the requirements as an Internet Draft and begin preparation for an initial Internet Draft Informational rfc in time for IETF-55.  Other items that are useful and not essential to that task will be kept off the critical path and filled in once critical activities are on track.  
	I am going to give myself the weekend for the reprioritization, submission of the Internet Draft requirements to IETF, and commencement of preparation of the Internet Draft Informational rfc.  
	First thing Monday, you will have my updated status, those results, and also updated milestones taking us out to the end of October.

-- Dennis

-----Original Message-----
From: Dennis E. Hamilton [mailto:orcmid@nfocentrale.net]
Sent: Wednesday, October 02, 2002 17:40
To: BFANNING
Cc: Jim Whitehead
Subject: 2002-10-02 Status: WebDAV Property Registration Project


Hi!

The WebDAV Interoperability event was a lot of fun.  I am happy that I was able to go to Santa Cruz, and also to participate in the meetings and take away useful notes on proceeding with the property registration project.

1.	PROJECT STATUS

[ ... ]

	http://nfocentrale.net/dmware/projects/P010100.htm

and I will provide an update the same time as all of the milestones set for next Monday, October 7.  I intend to make monday reports from now on.

